docs/runbook.md, before:

# Runbook

This document explains how to deploy, monitor, and roll back AlertBridge in production environments.

## Deployment

1. **Build and test the binary**
   ```bash
   make build
   make test
   ```
2. **Build the Docker image**
   ```bash
   docker build -t alertbridge:latest .
   ```
3. **Deploy** the container to your infrastructure or run the provided `docker-compose.yml` stack:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

## Monitoring

- Prometheus metrics are exposed at `http://<host>:8080/metrics`. Use the provided `prometheus.yml` and Grafana dashboards to track request counts and errors.
- Review container logs regularly for failed webhook deliveries or risk rule violations.

### Alert Rules

Prometheus alerts notify operators when critical conditions occur. Example rules:

```yaml
groups:
  - name: alertbridge.rules
    rules:
      - alert: OrderCreationStall
        expr: rate(order_total[5m]) == 0
        for: 5m
        labels:
          severity: critical
        annotations:
          summary: "No orders have been created in the last 5 minutes"

      - alert: HighWebhookLatency
        expr: histogram_quantile(0.95, rate(http_request_duration_seconds_bucket{handler="hook"}[5m])) > 0.5
        for: 10m
        labels:
          severity: warning
        annotations:
          summary: "95th percentile webhook latency exceeds 500ms"
```

Grafana dashboards can visualize these metrics and alert statuses for quick triage.

### Service Level Objectives

- **Webhook latency:** 95th percentile should remain under 500ms.
- **Order creation success rate:** at least 99% of valid webhooks must result in a successfully created order.

## Rollback

1. Identify the previous working Docker image tag or git commit.
2. Redeploy using that tag:
   ```bash
   docker run -d --rm --name alertbridge_previous <image:tag>
   ```
3. If using Docker Compose, update the image tag in `docker-compose.yml` and run:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

## Base Image Digest Updates

To pin the Docker base image to the latest Distroless digest:

1. Fetch the current digest:
   ```bash
   curl -s https://gcr.io/v2/distroless/static-debian11/manifests/latest \
     | grep -o 'sha256:[0-9a-f]\{64\}' | head -n 1
   ```
2. Update the `FROM` line in the `Dockerfile` with the retrieved digest.
3. Rebuild and redeploy the image.


## SBOM and Vulnerability Report Updates

To regenerate the software bill of materials and vulnerability report:

1. Install the tooling if not already available:
   ```bash
   go install golang.org/x/vuln/cmd/govulncheck@v1.1.4
   curl -sSfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anchore/syft/v0.84.0/install.sh | sh -s -- -b /usr/local/bin
   ```
2. Run the scanners from the repository root:
   ```bash
   govulncheck ./... 2>&1 | tee artifacts/govulncheck.txt
   syft . -o spdx-json > artifacts/sbom.spdx
   ```
3. Commit the updated files in the `artifacts/` directory.

Commit message:

docs: note pinned base image digests

docs/runbook.md, after:

# Runbook

This document explains how to deploy, monitor, and roll back AlertBridge in production environments.

## Deployment

1. **Build and test the binary**
   ```bash
   make build
   make test
   ```
2. **Build the Docker image**
   ```bash
   docker build -t alertbridge:latest .
   ```
3. **Deploy** the container to your infrastructure or run the provided `docker-compose.yml` stack:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

## Monitoring

- Prometheus metrics are exposed at `http://<host>:8080/metrics`. Use the provided `prometheus.yml` and Grafana dashboards to track request counts and errors.
- Review container logs regularly for failed webhook deliveries or risk rule violations.

### Alert Rules

Prometheus alerts notify operators when critical conditions occur. Example rules:

```yaml
groups:
  - name: alertbridge.rules
    rules:
      - alert: OrderCreationStall
        expr: rate(order_total[5m]) == 0
        for: 5m
        labels:
          severity: critical
        annotations:
          summary: "No orders have been created in the last 5 minutes"

      - alert: HighWebhookLatency
        expr: histogram_quantile(0.95, rate(http_request_duration_seconds_bucket{handler="hook"}[5m])) > 0.5
        for: 10m
        labels:
          severity: warning
        annotations:
          summary: "95th percentile webhook latency exceeds 500ms"
```

Grafana dashboards can visualize these metrics and alert statuses for quick triage.

### Service Level Objectives

- **Webhook latency:** 95th percentile should remain under 500ms.
- **Order creation success rate:** at least 99% of valid webhooks must result in a successfully created order.

## Rollback

1. Identify the previous working Docker image tag or git commit.
2. Redeploy using that tag:
   ```bash
   docker run -d --rm --name alertbridge_previous <image:tag>
   ```
3. If using Docker Compose, update the image tag in `docker-compose.yml` and run:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

## Base Image Digest Updates

Periodically refresh the pinned base images to include the latest security patches.

1. Fetch the current digest for the Go builder image:
   ```bash
   curl -s https://registry.hub.docker.com/v2/repositories/library/golang/tags/1.21-alpine \
     | grep -o '"digest":"sha256:[0-9a-f]*"' | head -n 1
   ```
2. Fetch the current digest for Distroless:
   ```bash
   curl -s https://gcr.io/v2/distroless/static-debian11/manifests/latest \
     | grep -o 'sha256:[0-9a-f]\{64\}' | head -n 1
   ```
3. Update the `FROM` lines in the `Dockerfile` with the retrieved digests.
4. Rebuild and redeploy the image.


## SBOM and Vulnerability Report Updates

To regenerate the software bill of materials and vulnerability report:

1. Install the tooling if not already available:
   ```bash
   go install golang.org/x/vuln/cmd/govulncheck@v1.1.4
   curl -sSfL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anchore/syft/v0.84.0/install.sh | sh -s -- -b /usr/local/bin
   ```
2. Run the scanners from the repository root:
   ```bash
   govulncheck ./... 2>&1 | tee artifacts/govulncheck.txt
   syft . -o spdx-json > artifacts/sbom.spdx
   ```
3. Commit the updated files in the `artifacts/` directory.
